[MUSIC]
Welcome to building and
running containers.
After watching this video,
you will be able build a container
image using a Dockerfile.
Create a running container using an image
and describe key Docker commands.
This diagram shows the development
process of a running container.
The steps to create and
run containers create a dockerfile use the
dockerfile to create a container image and
use the container image to
create a running container.
Use a Dockerfile to create
a running container.
This sample docker file has
the commands from and CMD.
From defines the base image and CMD prints
the words hello world on the terminal.
You'll notice that this Docker command
uses the build command, the tag,
the repository, the version,
and the current directory.
After you run this build, the output
messages include sending build context to
Docker Daemon, successfully built ,
which confirms image creation and
successfully tagged my-app,
which confirms the tag.
To verify the creation of the image,
run the docker images command.
The output displays the repository,
my-app, as well as the tag,
v1, image ID, creation date,
and the image size.
Create the container
using the run command.
With the container image name and tag, the
application prints the words hello world.
Execute the Docker PSA command,
which displays the details
of the container created.
Given the appropriate input.
The build command is used to create
container images with tags from
a docker file.
The images command will list all
the images, their repositories and
tags, and their sizes.
The run command creates and
runs a container from an image.
The push command stores images
in a configured registry,
and the pull command retrieves
images from a configured registry.
In this video, you learned that
the build command is used with
a Dockerfile to build a container image.
The run command is used with an image
to create a running container and key.
Dockerfile commands include build,
images, run, pull, and push.